---
layout: post
title: Week 13 - Open Source Within Industry and Group Work Progress
---

# Open Source Within Industry

This Wednesday in class, we talked about open source as a business perspective. When I first heard about "Open Source" and "Business" together, it felt a bit weird to me to align these two words. For me, these two words have different meanings; "Open Source" is "free," and everyone can look it up and contribute to it, while "Business" is something that only those involved can see and contribute to.

<!--more-->

However, after we had a lot of discussion during the class, I noticed that many companies have recognized the usefulness and importance of open source and are trying to implement the "Open Source" concept in their business. Of course, this does not mean that the entire core idea of a business is free. Open Source is not a business model, but there are business models built around open source projects. There are many ideas about how business models are built around open source projects, but let's talk about a few impressive ones from the class discussion.

The most impressive idea was "Open core." The core part of the business model is open source, but some business models build extra features for the "core" and sell these extra features to customers. The famous example is GitLab and GitHub. "Git" itself is an open source, but both companies offer various features for customers. Offering an easy user interface for the command line can be an example. Whenever I think of my usage of GitHub, the core program "git" is open source, but whenever I try to upload large files or use their new fancy features, I need to pay money for them. Also, I remember that the database command line, such as psql, and all resources related to this were free, but some software that has fancy features and an easy user interface wasn't free.

The other impressive thing was Software as a Service (SaaS). The software's core model itself is free, but most people do not have the tools or environment to run the core model, so they have to use the company's item that can serve this service. AWS is the most famous one. Cloud computing's core concept is open source and free, but not many people have the environment to run this cloud computing idea. Therefore, people have to use AWS's service.

We also watched several movies related to the company's usage of Open Source. One impressive thing from the YouTube video ["Why should you have an Open Source Program Office?"](https://youtu.be/lYjVwzd7Xrs) was that big companies like Comcast and U.S. Bank are also afraid of messing up open source. I never imagined that they could be afraid of something because I am an individual and they are big companies with lots of smart people. I noticed that big companies are also afraid of applying new technology.

# Group Project Contribution On Going

This week, our group tried dividing and conquering the working process. Leah and Rufi took [one issue](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/18045) and Nicole and I took [another issue](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/18034) from the Oppia repository. The issue was about a front-end error that pops up at axe devtools on the exploration editor page and its subpage. At first, Nicole and I tried to solve the original issue. There were multiple issues, and we were able to solve part of them. However, we couldn't find the file location in the codebase of certain issues. We already knew that as a general contributor, there are some files or folders that we cannot access, so we noticed that we couldn't figure out the whole issue.

Therefore, we decided to make a new issue post for the issue that we could solve and focused on the main page, trying to contribute to their codebase the part we could handle.

We got a response from Sean Lip, who asked us to solve the whole issue on the main page. After we received the response, we tried to solve the issue that Sean asked us to solve. However, we noticed that the front-end error that pops up at axe devtools sometimes can mess up the page. When we tried to solve the issue related to the `<li>` tag, it messed up the whole alignment of the exploration page tab. Therefore, even though Sean asked us to solve the whole issue, we left [comments](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/18112#issuecomment-1517040356) suggesting that fixing the error might not be a good idea.

Sean agreed with our suggestion and assigned us as contributors! We made another pull request for their code. We were so proud of our achievements this week, and I am getting a good experience with this group work. I'm learning how to communicate with other project members or maintainers and how to do pair coding with other teammates too. I'm excited to see what I'm going to learn next week with this group project.
