---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

# Week2: Code of Conduct and Experience Open Source World

## Code of Conduct

In this week's class, we discussed the "**Code of Conduct**." According to the _Wikipedia_ definition, a Code of Conduct is a "_set of rules_" that outlines the "_norms, rules, and responsibilities or proper practices_" of an individual or organization. In the context of Open Source, it is a **document** that specifies **expectations** for the **behavior** of project participants, aimed at creating a positive and healthy community.

<!--more-->

A Code of Conduct can protect project participants from negative experiences and unsuitable attitudes. It is also important for project creators as it helps safeguard the community from unproductive attitudes that can make other participants feel unhappy and unmotivated.

The [Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/), created by _Coraline Ada Ehmke_, is a widely adopted Code of Conduct for contributors to free/open source software projects. Many companies have adopted this document for their open source projects. In class, we reviewed three such implementations, including the [Go project](https://go.dev/conduct), [Eclipse](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php), and [Sugar Labs](https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Legal/Code_of_Conduct)."

The Code of Conduct for the [Go Project](https://go.dev/conduct) primarily follows the Contributor Covenant template. However, at the outset, the Go Project clearly states their desired community and the purpose of their Code of Conduct. They also outline the "values" that all participants should abide by. By explicitly defining the kind of community they aim to create, as opposed to simply providing standardized guidelines, participants in the project will have a clearer understanding of the values the Go community strives for and be better equipped to adhere to them.

The Code of Conduct for [Eclipse](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php) differs from the other implementations. It takes a more serious approach compared to the Go Project and Contributor Covenant. It includes sections titled "Investigation of Potential Code Violation," "Actions," and "No Retaliation," indicating the potential for legal action in the case of violations and retaliation towards others. While it emphasizes the responsibility of each participant for their behavior, it also demonstrates the presence of stronger and more defined legal measures.

The Code of Conduct for [Sugar Labs](https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Legal/Code_of_Conduct) differs from the others we discussed earlier. It places more emphasis on the values it expects from participants, rather than the reaction to violations of community rules. The code of conduct is based on the "Ubuntu Code of Conduct" and is even available in Spanish for Spanish speakers. I found it to be more friendly when reading the document, but I am curious about how they will handle inappropriate situations.

After reviewing all three codes of conduct, I became curious about the [OpenStreetMap's Code of Conduct](<https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Community_Code_of_Conduct_(Draft)>), as I may contribute in the future. Compared to the others, I feel this code of conduct strikes a balance between friendliness and taking serious action. At the beginning, it defines what a code of conduct is and outlines the expected behavior of participants. Additionally, it provides templates for communication between participants and outlines possible enforcement measures in case of rule violations.

## Experience Open Source World

### In Class

The Another activity that I've done in class was building my own new open source project - a browser extension! I've always used browser extensions, but never thought about the possibility of creating one myself or that it could be considered an open source project. So, it was an interesting experience to learn! Teamwork was also fun. With everyone helping each other, our team was able to complete the activity quickly and find useful information efficiently!

### Out side of the Class

This week, I edited a link on the course website. This was my first time solving an open issue in a community's code and it was very meaningful to me. I learned several things. Firstly, I noticed that the person who posted the issue could not solve it and that other community members need to step forward and ask the project owners if they want to solve the issue. After being assigned a task, the participant can then try to solve the issue. Secondly, I learned how to fix the issue. I had to fork the code to my repository, download it to my local device, edit it, commit it to my forked repository, and then request a "pull request" to merge my edited code with the original code. The owner checks with the person who posted the issue first and then merges the code.

This experience was interesting and taught me a lot about the process of contributing to open source. I plan to gradually increase my contributions to Wikipedia, OpenStreetMap, and eventually other open source projects.
