---
layout: post
title: Week 07 - Get Start Contributing Open Source as a Group
---

This week, based on our project interests, we were assigned to our group.  [Leah Durrett](https://github.com/howtofly-lab), [Rufaida Khan](https://github.com/rufaida99-k), and [Nicole Sosa](https://github.com/nicoleSosa) became my group members. After a few minutes of talking, we noticed that we were all interested in contributing to socially impactful open source projects, particularly in the field of education. As a result, we decided to contribute to an open source project called [Oppia](https://github.com/oppia/oppia).

<!--more-->

As I mentioned in my previous post, Oppia is an open source project that provides high-quality education to those who lack access to it. The reasons why we chose this project are as follows: first, we all agree that we love the purpose of the project and its positive influence on society. We all agree that equality in education is important, and by contributing to this open source project, we want to reduce differing levels of access to education with our abilities. Second, this open source project is very active and friendly to new contributors. Even if a project itself is nice, if no activities are happening on the project or if contribution works are beyond our ability, that project is not a good project to start open source contributing. However, the Oppia project looks really active. The last commit was just a few minutes ago when we checked. Additionally, when we checked, some issues are related to the front-end side of the webpage of the project, so we thought that we, at least, know the first approach to solving the issue. Also, we are all new to contributing to open source, so we all want an open source community that can welcome new contributors, especially beginners. Oppia's community seems friendly to all contributors, and maintainers seem to give feedback to contributors. In addition to this, no one snatches an issue assigned to someone to fix it.

Based on these reasons, we have finally decided to work on the Oppia project and have taken the first steps to set up regular meetings, communication channels, and a project progress tracker using Jira.

During our regular meeting on Saturday, we focused on completing the environmental settings specified by the Oppia project in their repository. Filling out the [Contributor License Agreement (CLA),](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contributor_License_Agreement) contributor survey, and introducing ourselves on the Github discussion board were not too difficult. The CLA form required us to agree to the terms, the contributor survey asked about our skillset, confidence level for each skillset, and the part we are interested in contributing. Introducing ourselves on the Github discussion board was as simple as leaving a message. As we completed these tasks, we were impressed by how organized the Oppia project is.

However, we encountered our first obstacles while setting up the development environment. We needed to download [direnv](https://direnv.net/), but three of us had trouble with installation. Personally, I had an issue with my zsh terminal, which couldn't find the alias, so I had to fix it. Other group members also encountered problems with their zsh terminals. Initially, we were all frustrated because we faced problems even though it was the very first setting. However, with the help of each other, we were able to solve all our problems and successfully download [direnv](https://direnv.net/).

We hope that we won't face too many problems during the setting process, but even if we do, we are confident that we can work together to solve them.
