---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - Discussion about the "Cathedral and the Bazaar" and group project reflection
---

# Discussion about "Cathedral and the Bazaar"

This week, we had a short 5-minute presentation about group contribution and a discussion on [Cathedral and Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/). The reading itself was pretty interesting. The author discusses the lesson he learned from his successful open-source project - fetchmail - and thoughts in different development styles: the `cathedral model` versus the `bazaar model`. We also discussed this reading in class.

<!--more-->

So many interesting ideas were shared in the class. Among the discussions, the most impressive topic was whether the `Bazaar` model is always better and the reading suggests that we should `Release early. Release often. And listen to your customers`, but is it always right? When should we release the program? With the `Bazaar model`, we can hear unexpected user behaviors from real users and easily fix bugs or add more useful functions at an early point. However, what if we release too early and cannot satisfy users' expectations? In my case, I would rather not use an application than try to fix it. Therefore, we have to release our program early, but it should satisfy users' minimum expectations. We also have to release updates often, but will all users like frequent updates? We should continuously update our program, but do it like twice a year or so. Our program should work properly before those updates, and if some users want to experience our on-time update, we should offer that option too, like beta testers.

Regarding the question "is the `Bazaar model` always right," we have to think about it. Would you prefer the `Bazaar model` for a rocket launch program? Probably not. Therefore, the `Bazaar model` isn't always right, but it works for programs where lots of users are expected.

# Group Project Reflection

As I mentioned before, we also had a 5-minute presentation for every group. It was a great time to hear how other groups approach contributing to open sources and their progress. I learned from other group's approaches and got motivated by their progress so far.

There are several things that I noticed during this presentation.

The first thing is that we could also contribute to the "community" by commenting on issues that don't seem relevant or make reproduction harder.

The second thing is that some groups actually reached out to maintainers and asked for contributions they can make. For our case, we are casually searching through all open issues, picking the issue that we think we can deal with, and trying to ask to be assigned to that issue by suggesting our way to solve the issue. However, some groups actually reach out to the maintainers and get some new features they need contributors' help with, like making a pamphlet or adding new features. Our group might try to reach out to the maintainers for more active contributions.

The last thing is how interesting it was to hear some groups' stories, like how they chose their project. The most impressive group was MAPLE. They found this project because one of the group members is from Boston, and they knew about this project from [Code for Boston](https://www.codeforboston.org/). They noticed that the MAPLE project looks very active, and the project itself is interesting, and therefore, they chose it. I might look over this site to choose an open-source project for my individual contribution.
