---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---

# Week 03 - Git Exercise and First Open Source Project Activity

## Git Exercise

This week in class, we learned about **git** and did an exercise with it. Git is a Version Control System and it can record changes in a set of one or more files. Therefore, with this system, people can use different versions later. We use this when developing software because we can easily revert to a previous version if the change we make doesn't work well. We can use this system to compare different versions or collaborate with each other. This helps prevent losing or conflicting group work by tracking every individual's changes. **Github** is different from git. Github is just a place where you can put your git repository. There are other websites you can use, such as GitLab.

I have used Github/git for my classes or uploading my files and projects. However, I have never used git's "version control system" function, especially to manage multiple versions or collaborate with others. Before this exercise, I was used to using "Github Desktop" rather than the terminal because it was much easier to use and very intuitive. This caused me trouble during the git exercise in class. I had trouble with authentication on Github during the exercise and needed to solve it. While solving the issue and redoing it at home, I learned many aspects of git, such as what git tracks in changes, how it controls conflicts, and how we can solve them. I still need more time and experience to use it more comfortably, but I am better at using it now than I was before.

## Group Activity - First Open Source Project

Other than the git exercise, I made my first open source project as a group. We had to make a browser extension application for FireFox, but in an Open Source format. Therefore, first we looked over other open source repositories. During that exercise, we noticed that all the repositories had a README.md that described what the software was, how to install it, who made it, and so on, a LICENSE.md that specified the license that applied to the software, a CONTRIBUTING.md that indicated the way that people could join the community and contribute, a CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md that told us the expected attributes as a community member, and finally, the src files that contained all the code needed to implement the application. After that, we made our Github repository following that format. We had to not only write the code for the application, but also write our own README.md, LICENSE.md, CONTRIBUTING.md, and CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md. In addition to this, we learned how to collaborate with each other using git.

In our group, we decided to make a browser extension that can extract pdf files from Brightspace. Since I did not have strong knowledge in JavaScript for the front-end side, I contributed a lot to making all the documents such as CONTRIBUTING.md, CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md, and so on. I also tried to find what descriptions were needed to make our application easier for all users. We did not have any major issues when we made this application. The Git branch was a bit messy, but we solved it by rebasing.

With this exercise, I learned the basic knowledge of "how to make my own open source project and collaborate with others as a member of a community." The activities such as sharing our ideas for the application, having zoom meetings for the project, having discussions to solve issues, and so on, made me feel like I was actually making a useful application as a group.
