---
layout: post
title: Week 14 - Open Source in Different Area and Finalizing Group Working
---

# Open Source in Different Area

This Monday in class, we talked about open source in different areas, not only tech fields. I was surprised to see how people are willing to share their information with others to better use and research. I found the [OpenNeuro](https://openneuro.org/) project that is open source in neuroscience. OpenNeuro is a free and open platform for analyzing and sharing neuroimaging data. It is designed to make it easier for researchers to share and access data from studies that involve brain imaging techniques such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET).

<!--more-->

As a researcher, especially in bio-related research, data is crucial because it is hard to obtain. Right now, I'm doing machine learning research on vaccination, and I understand how important data is. My dataset is also challenging to obtain, so I noticed it can be difficult to do research from a general perspective. For me, it's fine because my research is small, but it must be much more challenging for researchers who are doing significant and important research. Therefore, Having a space where they can share their scientific research data is very important, and so good to see people are trying to share their datasets with other in good purpose. Not only me, but my classmates also shared other science-related open-source projects such as the "Open Access Movement," "Open Science Framework," "PsychoPy," and more. It's good to know that many open-source movements are happening in science fields.

oreover, there are several interesting open-source projects that I've never imagined. One of them was Open Source Cola! This project produces cola soft drinks from an open-source recipe! It's cool! I never thought that a product could be made with an open-source recipe. Also, I really liked the Open Source Afro Hair Library. I appreciated the project's purpose of fixing the lack of afro-textured hair options in video games and how visually beautiful the project was.

# Finalizing Group Working

Also, this week, we finalized our group working. We wrapped up our assigned issue and made pull request. The very last pull request was related with this [issue](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-web-developer-docs/issues/157). I made this issue cause I noticed that example link at CSS styling was broken. As a group we figured out similar example file, so first, we expected to be assigned this issue to fix, but one maintainer said they would deal with this issue. Therefore, we didn't expect we're going to contribute this issue, but last minutes, one maintainer just assigned us, so we made a [pull request](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-web-developer-docs/pull/163) for it! 

The maintainer was so kind and really friendly, even though we asked quite lots of question to him. It was so great experience to communicate with maintainers and made a last contribution with them.

After that, we started making our side for our presentation. Wile making this, it reminds me all our experience as a group for first open source contribution. It was so interesting and fun experience and really helps me to step in open source world and communtiy. This course is really meaningful and valuable for me.

This week, my group and I wrapped up our work on our assigned issue and submitted a pull request. The last pull request we submitted was related to this [issue](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-web-developer-docs/issues/157), which I created after noticing that the example link at CSS styling was broken. Initially, we thought that we would be assigned to fix because we figured out how to fix it, but one maintainer informed us that they would handle the issue. However, at the last minutes other maintainers assigned the issue to us. For this, we quickly got to work and made a [pull request](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-web-developer-docs/pull/163) to fix the issue.

Throughout the process, the maintainer was very helpful and friendly, even though we had many questions for him. It was a great experience to communicate with the maintainers and make a contribution to the project.

We then started working on our [presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/12T4OUWuqR4JgFhKuSCkzz0pcF7NjxPVYjT5PcY52aSA/edit?usp=sharing), which reminded me of our experiences as a group during our first open source contribution. It was an interesting and enjoyable experience that helped me learn more about the open source community. Overall, this course has been very meaningful and valuable for me.
