---
layout: post
title: Week 05 - Mek Karpeles from Internet Archive/Open Library and My Small Contributions
---

## Mek Karpeles from Internet Archive/Open Library

On Wednesday, we had our first invited guest speaker, Mek Karpeles, who is the program leader of Open Library. His presentation was quite impressive to me. Prior to his presentation, I had never considered the importance of not only saving physical books or information, but also digital information, such as webpages. I simply thought, "Oh, is that just for saving information for the future?" Well, that is true, but saving all physical and digital information as a digital format has more significance than just preserving information for future generations. It is very important for us in the present as well.

<!--more-->

Open Library is particularly useful for people who cannot read books due to vision impairment, those who live in neighborhoods with limited or no library access, or those who cannot visit libraries during their opening hours due to various circumstances. Additionally, Internet Archive can be used to preserve important digital information, such as an ex-president's policy page, that may become unavailable otherwise.

Before his presentation, I was unsure of which open source project to contribute to. I had looked at many open source projects, but none of them had piqued my interest. However, after this presentation, I felt differently. I was drawn to the purpose of the Internet Archive project and was moved by his passion for it. Furthermore, he seemed very welcoming to new contributors, which was very encouraging. I may look more closely at the project's GitHub page and consider ways to contribute.

## All My Small Contributions

So far, I have contributed to various sources, such as course webpages, other classmates' weekly blogs, Wikipedia, and Open Street Map. Of these, the most impressive contributions were to Wikipedia and Open Street Map. Contributing to the course webpage and weekly blog was also enjoyable and interesting, as I was able to contribute by editing the source code. Initially, I was hesitant to contribute to Wikipedia and Open Street Map, thinking that only professionals could contribute to these sources. I was afraid that I might mess up the existing information.

This week, however, I decided to try contributing to these sources. It turned out to be much more interesting, enjoyable, and easier than I had expected. Before this class, I had assumed that all information on Wikipedia or Open Street Map was perfect and did not require any changes. However, upon closer inspection, I found that some information was outdated or missing. Additionally, as I edited information related to myself, such as editing information about South Korea's most famous university or adding building information around my town in NY and South Korea, the experience was very meaningful and fun.
