---
layout: post
title: Week 09 - Jim Hall and First Group Project Contribution
---

## Our Second Speaker: Jim Hall

On Monday, we had our second speaker, [Jim Hall](https://www.freedos.org/jhall/), who is the founder and project coordinator for the [FreeDOS](https://www.freedos.org/) project. Before joining the speaker's presentation, I read [the article](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/blog/what-is-dos/) Professor Joanna asked us to read, because I didn't even know what DOS was.

<!--more-->

Based on this article, DOS is an abbreviation of "**disk operating system**". It is a type of operating system that runs from a disk drive rather than a paper-based medium like a punch card. This is an **early command-line-based operating system**.

When the first Apple Macintosh came out in 1984, people noticed that they could use computers even easier with a GUI-based operating system, and Microsoft followed this trend. Therefore, most operating systems changed from DOS to GUI-based operating systems.

Reading the article was pretty interesting because I had never learned about the history of computers. Also, since my first "computer experience" started with Windows 7, I had never thought about what people's lives were like before this GUI-based operating system was invented.

During his talk, I noticed various interesting facts about our speaker, not only about the FreeDOS program itself. His major was not computer science, but physics, and before he delved into the CS field, he thought that "it would be nice if computers could do these works for him". However, the fun fact was that he ended up doing more maths when he started getting involved in the CS field deeply.

I feel the same way because before deciding on my major in computer science, I was more interested in math, so I took more math classes. When I decided to major in computer science, I thought that I wouldn't use all the mathematical theories that I had learned. However, when I started studying computer science theory, I found that all the mathematical knowledge I had gained was very useful and even demanded more mathematical knowledge.

In addition to this, I asked him a personal question: "As the CEO of a company that focuses on raising and training IT leaders, what do you think is the most important thing to become a successful leader in the IT field?" He answered that when you want to become an IT leader, the important thing is communication with other people and leading people and projects, rather than technology. It doesn't mean that technical skill is not important, but the ability to oversee a project in the right way and lead people in the correct way is more important.

## First Group Project Contribution

Compared to the last post, our group has completed a lot of work. We installed the virtual environment for Oppia and successfully ran the Oppia project on a development server. Both my group and I faced numerous troubleshooting issues during installation and operation of the Oppia project. This project development environment mainly focused on intel chip-based Mac users, so I, who have a Mac with an M1 chip, and another group member who has a WindowsOS laptop, faced several issues while following their instructions. I needed to "emulate the *Intel* architecture" using `Rosetta 2` and experienced conflicts between "Homebrew" in the M1 environment and the virtual Intel environment. My groupmate, who has a WindowOS, had to install all things in the Ubuntu environment and faced various errors due to their unclear instructions.

During installation, we realized that their instruction documentation was not user-friendly for non-Intel chip-based Mac users. Therefore, we came up with possible future contributions to the installation documentation.

After all members successfully installed the development environment, we went through all their services (web and application) to identify possible contributions or improvements that we could suggest. While experiencing their application, we noticed that when we create a profile, the default profile picture is male, and there is no option to choose. Therefore, we created [an issue](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/issues/4923) suggesting gender-neutral photos or giving users the option to choose profile photos.

This is a small contribution, but a good start to involve this community. We hope to make more contributions to their codebase or even create new lessons.
