---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

# Week 04 - Our First Open Source Activity

## My Group's Extension

For our browser extension activity, our group created the "**Brightspace Pdf Viewer**"(Yes the extension that students really liked and that professor really curious about🙄) extension. This extension helps users view PDFs on Brightspace in full screen without having to download them. Although I didn't contribute a lot to the code, I played a significant role in making our project more friendly for open-source use.

<!--more-->

By reading the code and attempting to implement it, I tried to approach the project from the perspective of users who have little to no knowledge about computer science. As people who already possess a significant amount of software knowledge, we sometimes forget to include small details on how users can use the extension, assuming that users already possess some knowledge without realizing it ourselves. Therefore, my teammates and I organized all of the source code and files into easily identifiable folder names and made the README.md file more readable, especially in the installation section. Our team agreed that we should provide more installation details, so we broke down all the steps and numbered them.

Additionally, I wanted to make our project friendly for developers who wished to contribute to our project. As such, I created a **CONTRIBUTING.md** file and a **CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md** file, which provided clear guidelines on how users could contribute to the project and the attitude we expected them to have. For the Code of Conduct, we adopted the **Contributor Covenant** format, which clearly outlined the steps users could take if they encountered uncomfortable situations or discrimination. To create the contributing page, I followed the format of the [contributing generator](https://github.com/bttger/contributing-gen), an **open-source** tool. I wanted to find a consistent way for users to communicate with us and organize all of our issues in a place where not only the main developers but also the entire community could participate. The open-source format provided me with the answer, which was to use the [issue tab](<(https://github.com/ossd-s23/Brightspace_Pdf_Viewer/issues)>) in our repository. I modified the generator's format to suit our open-source project.

Through this activity, as I briefly mentioned during our final presentation, I learned three primary things. Firstly, I learned about the attitude and approach required when working with others as a team. Although it was a simple browser extension project, I learned a lot about the different aspects of teamwork. I needed to make sure that the team made progress and to always remember that people are different, and collaboration could lead to a wholly different outcome! Collaboration results are usually excellent, but they require a lot of effort. Secondly, I learned a lot about Git and GitHub. Before this project, I mainly used GitHub Desktop, as I didn't need to memorize any complex commands, and GitHub Desktop handled all the different Git usage perspectives. However, I noticed that it merged my code after creating new branches, which looked a bit messy when looking at the Git log. Thanks to the Git activity during the class and this group activity, I have now switched from GitHub Desktop to typing commands into the terminal. I realized that this gave me more diverse options that I could use, which was way better. Lastly, I learned a lot about browser extensions and front-end JavaScript. I had some knowledge of front-end JavaScript, but I never thought that I could use this knowledge to create a browser extension. In fact, I had never thought about making a browser extension even though I used them every day. Thanks to this activity, I learned how to implement a browser extension and also learned more about front-end JavaScript in addition to my previous knowledge.

## Other Groups' Extensions

Apart from our group's extension, all the other groups' extensions were amazing and interesting! For example, there was a tab that allowed users to save useful webpages, an extension that allowed users to change the color of the top tab, an application that helped users save their to-dos and check their schedules, and an extension that enabled users to check the ratings of professors on RateMyProfessor webpage, among others. What I noticed was that all of the extensions provided functions that are in high demand among students at the moment. It was amazing to see that we can create applications that meet our own needs.
