---
layout: post
title: Week 06 - Various Open Source Evaluations
---

This week's activities mainly focused on looking at different kinds of open sources and evaluating whether a project is a good project to start contributing to.

Before these activities, I thought that I had to know everything myself in order to make a contribution and that no one would welcome a beginner's contribution. That's why I never considered contributing to open source projects and was afraid of it. However, after this evaluation activity, I noticed that while some projects are not welcoming to beginners or new contributors who lack specific knowledge, skills, software, or hardware, there are also projects that welcome anyone who wants to contribute to their project, from beginners to experts. These projects provide useful resources for all contributors, and sometimes contributions are not limited to the codebase.

<!--more-->

Let's talk about this more details with the actual projects that I've looked up so far. 

In class, our group looked at the [DALL-E 2 PyTorch](https://github.com/lucidrains/DALLE2-pytorch) project and thought it was cool because it has received a lot of attention recently and involves some fancy software technology. However, as beginner contributors, we found that this was not a good project to work on. First, it didn't seem very welcoming to new contributors as there was no instruction file to guide us through the contribution process. We were simply directed to join a Discord channel and left to figure things out on our own. Furthermore, within the Discord channel, we couldn't find any clear instructions on how to contribute to the project. Second, it appeared that advanced AI/ML knowledge, such as image diffusion, was required to work on this project. After discussing these issues in class, I realized that I shouldn't choose a project to contribute to based solely on how cool it sounds.

Before deciding on a project to contribute to, there are several factors to consider:

- My coding abilities
- Other skills that are required to understand or contribute to the project
- The visibility of the project and its significance to me
- The project's impact on me, other people, and society
- What kind of contributions I can make
- My familiarity with the project
- My familiarity with the tools and hardware/software requirements
- The project's level of activity

Keeping this list in my mind, I looked over two other open sources. [Oppia](https://github.com/oppia) and [Project Jupyter](https://github.com/jupyter).

[Oppia](https://github.com/oppia) is an open source project that provides high quality education to those who lack access to it. When I first saw and evaluated this project, I was excited because I have always wanted to use my abilities to contribute to society. I have dedicated a lot of time to developing my skills, and if I could use them to make a positive impact on someone's life, I would feel like my time and my life were meaningful to someone. Even a small contribution could have a significant impact on someone's life through this program, and that would be incredibly meaningful to me.

Furthermore, this project not only has a good purpose, but it also satisfies many of the conditions I look for in a project to contribute to. Most of the project is based on Python, which I am quite confident with, and the project is very active. The maintainers seem friendly and have provided excellent instructions for new contributors and beginners. I felt very welcomed just reading their feedback and instructions for contributing.

https://github.com/jupyter

[Project Jupyter](https://github.com/jupyter) is an open source project that supports interactive data science and scientific computing across all programming languages. When I evaluated this project, I was surprised to find that it was welcoming to contributors at all levels, including beginners. They have instructions from A to Z for new contributors, and they even have weekly sessions for contributors or people who are generally interested in the project. Additionally, the maintainers are friendly and provide great feedback when someone tries to make a new contribution. They also manage contributions very efficiently, using a bot to automatically check contributions before a maintainer manually reviews and merges them. I was impressed by how welcoming they are to all members of the community, even though they are a popular project, and how they manage the project systematically.

Evaluating this project made me excited and gave me expectations for contributing to open source projects, but it also made me a bit worried. I still worry that I may not have the skills that good open source projects are looking for, or that my contributions might not be useful. However, the first thing to do is to try it rather than doing nothing. If I find that I lack the necessary abilities to contribute to certain projects, I can always study more and develop my skills.
