---
layout: post
title: Week 10 - Contribution Progress
---

# Group Contribution

After successfully completing our first contribution, we made our [second](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/17867#issue-1646175140) and [third](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/17832#issuecomment-1489155054) contributions this week. Our second contribution involved an identifying issue with a header on the Oppia webpage and reporting it to the project's issue tab. While reviewing the webpage, all members of our group noticed that one of the headers was not distinguishable because its text color was white and the background was ivory-ish, making it hard to read. We reported this issue on the issue tab.

Our third contribution was related to the codebase. Another contributor had raised an issue regarding the `Help Center` link on the Exploration editor page, stating that the blue color used for the link was not distinguishable for some individuals, such as those who are color blind. Our group suggested a brief plan to fix this issue by pointing out actual code locations. After receiving confirmation from a maintainer, our group was assigned the issue and successfully made merge requests.

Throughout this process, I have learned many things. For instance, I now understand that each program has its own code style, and there are tools like Linters to check if I have followed the code style correctly. I was surprised at how strict the Linter test was, as it threw errors if I missed certain spaces, used the wrong case (upper or lower), and so on. Additionally, I spent a lot of time navigating Git to ensure that I did not mess up my branch or pull request's Git log. To fix my own errors, I deleted some Git commits, reverted changes, created new branches, and so on. I found it interesting to learn about the different functions of Git.

# Individual Contribution

I didn't know that I should have picked a different project for my individual contribution, so I accidently did two individual contributions to Oppia. First, I reported a bug on their [Community Lessons page](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/17889#issue-1650183266), where one of the buttons was automatically hovered over. I reported this issue on their issue tab. Second, I solved another reported issue on their [Exploration Editor page](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/17886#issue-1649010839). The save button's color contrast was insufficient because part of the button's text had too low opacity, which resulted in an insufficient color contrast rate. I suggested multiple ways to solve this issue, and the maintainer liked one of my solutions. After making the changes based on the maintainer's choice, I did the pull request.

Here's the corrected paragraph:

I didn't know that I should have picked a different project for my individual contribution, so I did two contributions to Oppia instead. First, I reported a bug on their [Community Lessons page](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/17889#issue-1650183266), where one of the buttons was automatically hovered over. I reported this issue on their issue tab. Second, I solved another reported issue on their [Exploration Editor page](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/17886#issue-1649010839). The save button's color contrast was insufficient because part of the button's text had too low opacity, which resulted in an insufficient color contrast rate. I suggested multiple ways to solve this issue, and the maintainer liked one of my solutions. After making the changes based on the maintainer's choice, I did the pull request.

Later, I realized that I should have contributed to a different project than the one I was working on with my group. So I navigated through all the active open-source projects that I could think of and that were interesting, and had requirements that I already had. Eventually, I was able to contribute to the [Mozilla Localization](https://pontoon.mozilla.org/contributors/r34tC0XdcsDhqsw36YyA3v0MrMc/) and [Korean Language of Django Team](https://www.transifex.com/user/profile/SeoeunH/) as a translator. I remember my friend, who also studies computer science, struggling to find documentation because all official documents are written in English, which she wasn't good at. So, contributing to well-known projects' localization as a translator was a meaningful moment for me personally. I also found a [documentation-related issue](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/26035#issuecomment-1492758225) in the scikit-learn project and left a comment to take up that issue. I am now waiting for a response from the contributor so that I can contribute to this project too.

In next week, hopefully, I could find some good project to work on as an individually. 
